# Week 25
## Todo this week
- [x] Test water cooling with the two 40x40 TECs and the CPU cooler.
- [x] Recall the heat loss of the parts of the setup.
- [x] Test water cooling with insulation.
- [x] Test water cooling with 15 V for the 40x40 TECs.
- [ ] Do an experiment with the one 30x30 module with the CPU cooler.

## 2026-06-15
+ Discussed with Emanuele the half-current-problem of the 40x40 TECs.
+ Tested water cooling with the two 40x40 TECs and the CPU cooler. The Th is 33.5, Tc is 23.5, delta T is 10 &deg;C. Given the 12 V input and ~3A current the Qc is 20..25 W for one TEC, 40..50 W for the setup. To cool down one liter of water by 1 &deg;C we need 1.16 Wh. Given the 5 liters water in the water tank we can cool it down by ~8 &deg;C in one hour. After one hour we have observed the cooling by just 2 &deg;C. The difference can be explained by heat lost of the non insulated setup. Need to try with less volume of water. (Later found one TEC was disconnected).

## 2026-06-16
+ Found that the was no electric connection of one TEC in the water cooling test yesteday. The Qc of the setup was 20..25, the heat loss was much higher. Logs are useless; deleted.
+ Tested the Tc when one or both TECs are powered. When the both TECs are powered th Tc goes from 30 &deg;C to 0 &deg;C in 1 minute. When only one TEC is powered the TC goes does down to 15 &deg;C in 1 minute.
+ Tested water cooling with the two 40x40 TECs and the CPU cooler. The Th is 33.4, Tc is 14.4, delta T is 19 &deg;C. Given the 12 V input and ~3A current the Qc is 20..25 W for one TEC, 40..50 W for the setup. To cool down 1 liter of water by 1 &deg;C we need 1.16 Wh. Given the 0.5 liters water in the thermos we can cool it down by ~34 &deg;C in one hour, 17 &deg;C in half an hour. After 30 minutes we have observed the cooling by ~14 (from 28 to 14) &deg;C. The 3 &deg;C difference can be explained by heat lost.
+ Tested (again) water cooling. Insulated the Cu heat exchanger with a foamy material. After 30 minutes the Tc reached 9.1 &deg;C, Th 33.6 &deg;C (dT 24.5 &deg;C), T water 10.1 &deg;C, T air 28.7 &deg;C. The T loss of the water interface is 1 &deg;C. The initial T water was 17.1 &deg;C; dT is 7 &deg;C. We can insulate the water pipes and make them shorter.

## 2026-06-17
+ Recall the best results we achieved with the 30x30 mm, 15.7 V, 2.8 A, 16.2 W TECs in various conditions (stable current 2.1 A):
    + Tc &minus;62.6 &deg;C, Th &minus; 15.9 &deg;C - air, climate chamber
    + Tc &minus;52.1 &deg;C, Th 9.2 &deg;C - vacuum, chiller
    + Tc &minus;45.3 &deg;C, Th 4.9 &deg;C - air, insulation, chiller
    + Tc &minus;30.9 &deg;C, Th 33.4 &deg;C - air, CPU cooler
+ Current results we achieved with the 40x40 mm, 16.1 V, 8.5 A, 51.6 W TECs (stable voltage 12 V), (Tc measured after 30 min):
    + Tc &minus;38.2 &deg;C, Th 31.2 &deg;C - air, CPU cooler - no thermal load
    + Tc 9.1 &deg;C, Th 33.6 &deg;C - air, insulation, CPU cooler - 500 ml water
    + Tc 14 &deg;C, Th 33.4 &deg;C - air, CPU cooler - 500 ml water
    + T water was 1 &deg;C higher then Tc
+ Notes about water cooling:
    + The specific heat capacity of water is ~4184 J/(kg K) or 1.162 Wh/(liter K). Cooling down water by 25 &deg;C requires 29.05 Wh/liter. To cool down in 5 minutes requires power of 348.6 W/liter, or ~35 W/(100 ml).
    + The water pipes with ID 6 mm have volume 2.83 ml/(10 cm).
    + We need to reduce the water volume as much as possible.
+ Tested for a minimal Tc without water. T air 28.3 &deg;C. Tc &minus;34.5 &deg;C, Th 32.5 &deg;C after 5 minutes, Tc &minus;40.1 &deg;C, Th 32.4 &deg;C after 10 minutes.
+ Use 50 ml of water, the water tank is insulated. Initial T water is 23 &deg;C. Tc 9.3 &deg;C, Th 33.9 &deg;C, T water 10.3 &deg;C after 5 minutes. Tc 4.5 &deg;C, Th 33.8 &deg;C, T water 5.5 &deg;C after 10 minutes.
+ We can't use less water with the current Seaflo water pump. Though the insulation of the water pipes can be added.
+ Ordered a smaller and quieter 12 V water pump at Aliexpress.

## 2026-06-18
+ Calculated the energy required to change T of 50 ml of water, according to the measurements done yesterday:
    + From 23 &deg;C to 10.3 &deg;C spent 0.738 Wh in 5 minutes (8.9 W average). The dT of the TEC reached 24.6 &deg;C.
    + From 23 &deg;C to 5.5 &deg;C spent 1.017 Wh in 10 minutes (6.1 W average). The dT of the TEC reached 29.3 &deg;C.
+ Made the water pipes shorter and insulated. 
+ Cooled 50 ml of water. Tc 7.9 &deg;C, Th 34.7 &deg;C, T water 8.9 &deg;C after 5 minutes. Tc 1.0 &deg;C, Th 34.7 &deg;C, T water 3.3 &deg;C after 10 minutes. The water was already freezing, probably.  
+ Adgusted one power supply from 12 V to 14.5 V. The initial current of the TECs is 3.84 and 4.0 A.
+ Cooled 50 ml of water. Tc 4.2 &deg;C, Th 36.4 &deg;C, T water 5.3 &deg;C after 5 minutes. Tc &minus;19.4 &deg;C, Th 36.4 &deg;C, after 10 minutes. The noise of the pump changes after 6 minutes - the pipes are blocked with ice, T water increses.

## Todo next week
- Check the delivery updates from Aliexpress. The order can arrive this week.
- Decide which configuration of the TECs we would use, parallel or serial.
