# Week 20
## 2026-05-11
* The last experiments in the climate chamber at DIFA were interrupted due to a noticeable pressure drop (100 mBar per minute) at low temperature, while at room temperature the pressure drop was 10 mBar per minute. To detect the source of the leakage, we immersed the electrolytic cell with the electrodes into ethanol, as it does not freeze down to &minus;114 C&deg;. It was found that the leakage was caused by the different thermal expansion coefficients (TEC) of the materials. In particular, the Loctite bicomponent epoxy has a TEC of 50&times;10<sup>&minus;6</sup> K<sup>&minus;1</sup>, while glass and inox have TECs about 10&times;10<sup>&minus;6</sup> K<sup>&minus;1</sup>. Ideally, the use of any epoxy should be avoided. We can try another epoxy, though, e.g. the [APP EP4 two-component adhesive epoxy](https://static.app.com.pl/EN-LEAFLET-040514.pdf).
* We use a Swagelok connector designed for a metal tube, not the PA11 6mm plastic tube. With the plactic tube it doesn't provide good sealing and leaks at negative temperatures. I ordered a connector for plastic tubes which has an M5x0.8 male thread. I have to make a M5x0.8 female to M10x1.5 male adapter from inox.

## 2026-05-12
* Bought a D4.2 drill bit for the M5 thread. Used a D4.5 bit at the end, as it seemed easier to thread the inox bolt.
* Failed to make the M5 thread in the inox bolt and broke two taps. Ordered new M5 thread taps, and new M10 inox bolts.
* The APP EP4 epoxy has arrived.

## 2026-05-13
* Tested EP4 epoxy. It should be used within 5 minutes, it has 80% strength in 2 hours, [see the specs](https://static.app.com.pl/EN-TDS-040514.pdf). 
* Asked to DIFA if Federico can make an M5 thread in inox.
* Made the holes in the Al blocks for the OD16xL20 mm springs, for the Peltier condenser block.

## 2026-05-14
* At DIFA Federico made two M10x1.5 to M5x0.8 adapters: one from PEEK and one from inox.
* Made an M10x1.5 inner thread at the place of the thread for the Swagelok connector.

## 2026-05-15
* The thread of the M10x1.5 to M5x0.8 adapter made of PEEK failed instantly when the M5 pipe connector was screwed in, so we will use the adapter made of inox. 
* Made a new Pt electrode: old 1 mm Pt-rod, 6 mm glass tube, EP4 epoxy. To reduce the absolute shrinkage of the epoxy, the diameter of the Pt rod is increased with a Cu tube soldered together. The Cu will not touch the solution in the cell. 
* The thermocouple sealed into the cell has broken. I have to remove the old one, fasten the new one and seal with the silicone sealant. 

## Todo next week
- Check the tightness of the cell assembly at room temperature.
- Check thre readings of the new thermocouple.
- Reserve the climate chamber for the tightness check.
- Check the tightness at negative temperatures.
- Conduct a second experiment with the GC.
    - Agree on a day with Antonio
- Make a new clump for the Perlter cooler.
