# Week 23
## Todo this week
+ Send the journals list to Giulia
+ Continue to manufacture the new setup
    + Clamp the Peltier modules
    + Mount the clamp to the base of the vacuum chamber
+ Revise the power requirements for the Peltier
+ Check the mounted TECs work (with thermocoupes)
+ Add whiring for all TECs
+ Check how all the TECs work
+ Send the dimentions of the RE adapter to Antonio

## 2026-06-01
+ Sent an email with selected jornals to Giulia 
+ Partly assembled the Peltier with the clamp. Not enough of the themal paste.

## 2026-06-02
* Republic day

## 2026-06-03
+ Arrived Arctic MX-7 thermal paste.
+ Mounted the clamp with Peltier to the base of the vacuum chamber.

## 2026-06-04
+ Revised the power requirements for the TECs. The 40x40 modules need 8.5 A @ 16.1 V. The 30x30 modules need 2.8 A @ 15.7 V. We can use three 7.5 A @ 12 V power supplies.
+ Checked how 2 TECs work (at one side only), with three termocouples, no vacuum, no cooling. Made cuves of the T.
+ Done a cooling test in air. no cooling. The 2 layers of TECs on one side only. Tc reached 0 &deg; C in 5 min, Th 54, Tmid 55. Seems there is not enough Qc at the second layer.

## 2026-06-05
+ Measured the volume of the RE adapter for Antonio. It's 2.36 ml. The RE inside it has 0.85 ml. Then, the gas volume is 1.51 ml.
+ Modifided the power supply for all the TECs
+ Added wiring for all the TECs
+ Done a cooling test of 2 layers of TECs on the both sides. Reached Tc &minus;16 &deg; C in 5 min, Th 55, Tmid 58. Not enough Qc at the 2nd layer.
+ Done a cooling test with 1st layer TECs connected in series (i.e. 6V each) to reduce Qh of the 1st layer. Reached Tc &minus; 20 &deg; in 5 min, Th 61, Tmid 15. 
+ Measured the current of the 40x40 module. It's 3.2 A @ 12 V. It should be 8.5 A @ 16.1 V, so I'd expect ~ 6.3 A, not 3.2 A. 

## Todo next week
- Check all the 40x40 modules if the have half of the declared current.
- Revise all the Peltier modules. What do we have?
- Test in vacuum. What's the minimum T of the current setup?
