# Week 28
## Todo this week
+ Calculate the cooling power based on the time constant (we can't)
+ Evaluate if precooling of the CO<sub>2</sub> at the intermidiate layers of the TECs improves the efficiency.
+ Check if the 1 mm aluminium plate goes to &minus;51.8 &deg;C in 5 minutes with the new white thermal paste (it doesn't, goes to &minus;50.5 &deg;C).
+ Move the CO<sub>2</sub> to the new lab.

## 2026-07-06
+ Tested with the 30x30x10 mm aluminium block:
    + Tc is &minus;40.4 &deg;C after 5 minutes.
    + Tc is &minus;45.9 &deg;C after 10 minutes.
    + Th&minus;Tvent is 7.0 &deg;C (water cooling with the Seaflo pump)
    + The vents were switched on after 3 minutes only (has fogotten to do it).
    + The pressure sensor wasn't connected at the beginning (see the log).
    + The new (white, cheap) thermal paste is used.
    + Th - Tc is 85.8 &deg;C (was 93.4 &deg;C with 30x30x1 mm aluminium sheet).
    + The time constante of the Tc is 120 seconds at 29.1 - (29.1 + 45.9) * 0.632 = &minus;18.3 &deg;C (was 47 seconds with the 30x30x1 mm thermal load).
+ The RC model (thermal Resistance, themal Capacitance / mass) is not suitable for evaluation of the cooling power, since it's not heat limited. Instead the thermoelectric effects decreases as the Th and Tc decrease.
+ Modeling with ChatGPT showes that precooling of the gas at the intermediate levels would result in loss of ~2 &deg;C due to additional thermal resistance, and in gain of ~1 Watt in the condenser. So, has non sence. Not mentioning the additional complexity and cost of the solution. 

## 2026-07-07
+ Moved the rest of the stuff from 144 to 415, except CO<sub>2</sub>.
+ The chamber doesn't hold the vacuum (0.1 Bar/min loss). Have to fix it.
+ Tested the white thermal paste with the 30x30x1 mm aluminium insert.
    + Tc is &minus;50.5 &deg;C after 5 minutes.
    + Tc is &minus;50.1 &deg;C after 10 minutes. 
    + Th - Tc is 87.4 &deg;C (was 93.4 &deg;C with the better thermal paste)
    + Th kept rising untill 10 minutes, Th reached 38.8 &deg;C. 
    + The time constant is 22 secondsd (was 47 seconds in similar conditions; why the difference is such big?).
+ The test have shown the effect of size of the thermal load and of the thermal paste:
    + Tc &minus;50.5 &deg;C vs &minus;40.4 &deg;C after 5 minutes for the 1 mm and 10 mm aluminium inserts.
    + Tc &minus;50.5 &deg;C vs &minus;51.8 &deg;C after 5 minutes for the cheap white and the Artic MX7 thermal pastes. 
+ Moved the CO<sub>2</sub> to the new lab.
+ Failed to make the condenser.
+ The M5 pipe connectors are not suitable for low temperature due to use of O-rings. Have to use old condenser.

## 2026-07-08
+ Made (again) the 30x30x10 mm condenser with M5 pipe connectors. Failed to seal the connectors without the O-rings. Will try condensation with O-rings. Made a mistake with orientation of the condenser; will fix it.

## 2026-07-09
+ Fixed the orientaton of the condenser.
+ Tested with the 30x30x10 mm condenser (compared with the test 2026-07-06):
    + Tc is &minus;39.3 &deg;C after 5 minutes (was &minus;40.4 &deg;C).
    + Tc is &minus;47.7 &deg;C after 10 minutes (was &minus;45.9 &deg;C).
    + Th&minus;Tvent is 7.0 &deg;C (water cooling with the Seaflo pump)
    + Th - Tc: 39.4 + 47.7 = 87.1 &deg;C (was 85.8 &deg;C).
    + The time constante of the Tc is 150 seconds at 27.4 - (27.4 + 47.7) * 0.632 = &minus;20.1 &deg;C (was 120 seconds).
    + The deviations of the temperature can be caused by the lower ambient temperature, lower thermal inertia (due to the holes), thermal paste unevenness etc.
+ There is no vacuum leakage (w/o fixing it).
+ Assembled the pneumatic part of the setup: CO<sub>2</sub> and vacuum pipes and fittings.  
- Try to liquefy CO<sub>2</sub>.
