# Week 29
## Todo this week
+ Test the assumption about the liquefaction: switch off the TECs at higher temperatures and check it the pressure rises, with the CO<sub>2</sub> in the pipes.
+ Power TECs from a regulable power supply. Try to increase cooling power.
+ Use chiller to lower the temperature.

## 2026-07-13
+ Added a metal wire (part of a damaged thermcouple) going from the cell to the condenser. It's now equal to the setup when the thermocouple was inserted into the condenser, and it could work as a heat conductor. Assumed that the liquefaction still occures as the pressure rises when the TECs are switched off.
+ The liqufactions attemped with the metal wire wasn't succefull.
+ Tested the assumption of liquefaction, at different tempatures: when Tc arrived to a certain temperature the TECs were switch off and observed if the pressure went up. At &minus;20 and &minus;30 the pressure didn't rise. At &minus;40 the pressure wetnt up. Hence, the liquefaction occures. Let's test how the pressure is affected by the time at low temperature.
+ Did 30 minutes of liquefaction. No liquid CO<sub>2</sub> in the cell. When the TECs were switched off the pressure went up to 9 Bar, without flat plateau. It means there was little of the liquid.
+ Search for maximum Tc by increasing voltage for the 30x30 TECs (30x30x20 condenser, vacuum, no gas, Tw is measured at the water heat exchanger of the ventilator):
    + 15 V, 1.39 A: Tc &minus;47.4, Th 40.4, Tw 32.6 
    + 12 V, 1.18 A: Tc &minus;49.5, Th 40.0, Tw 32.5 
    + 11 V, 1.09 A: Tc &minus;50.1, Th 39.8, Tw 32.5
    + 10 V, 0.99 A: Tc &minus;50.5, Th 39.5, Tw 32.4
    + 9 V, 0.92 A: Tc &minus;50.9, Th 39.4, Tw 32.4
    + 7 V, 0.74 A: Tc &minus;50.2, Th 39.3, Tw 32.4
+ In the last test, with the TECs were switched off the gas pressure went up to 11.2 Bar. At this point the security valve limited the pressure level. Hence. the amount of the liquid was begger wrt the previous test.

## 2026-07-14
+ Discussed with Emanuele the problematic liquefaction. Suggested to add another layer of TECs to cool down the water with existing TECs. The "half-power" TECs can be replaced with good ones in feature.
+ Decided to use the chiller at place of the ventilators to cool down the 40x40 TECs to check if lower temperature at the hot side would improve the performance of the system up to the point the liquefaction would be possible.
+ Moved the chiller to the laboratory.

## 2026-07-15
+ Tested the water cooling of the 2nd layer of the TECs with the chiller instead of the ventilators:
    + 14:15 TECs on
    + The 30x30 TECs are powered at 12 V instead of 15 V, aving seen in the test on 2026-07-13 that at 12 V the 30x30 TECs have better performance.
    + The 40x40 TECs are at 14.5 V.
    + T water was 2.1 &deg;C at the begining.
    + Tc &minus;33.0 &deg;C, Th 14.3 &deg;C after 5 minutes.
    + Tc &minus;52.4 &deg;C, Th 13.6 &deg;C after 10 minutes.
    + Tc &minus;57.3 &deg;C, Th 13.1 &deg;C after 15 minutes.
    + Tc &minus;58.5 &deg;C, Th 12.9 &deg;C after 20 minutes.
    + Tc &minus;59.0 &deg;C, Th 12.6 &deg;C after 25 minutes.
    + Tc &minus;59.0 &deg;C, Th 12.6 &deg;C, Tw 3.1 &deg;C after 30 minutes.
    + 14:45 CO<sub>2</sub> open constantly, reductor refilled two times.
    + 14:50:30 CO<sub>2</sub> 3d time, after the P reductor went 0.
    + 14:56:00 CO<sub>2</sub> 4th time.
    + 15:00 No liquid. Tc &minus;51.1, Th 12.7,Tw 3.3, P 7.6 Bar.
    + 15:05 TECs off.
+ No liquid CO<sub>2</sub> in the cell. Why?
+ We had liquid CO<sub>2</sub> in this cell at CNR. The only major diffirence of the setups was the gas connector. The old one was the [Camozzi C6510-4-1/4 male connectors](https://media.camozzi.com/pdf/6000-ENG.pdf). The new one is a genereal 6 mm pipe connector, which has more metallic parts exposed to the flow of the liquid. It's possible that the liquid evaporates on the hot metal parts, thus cooling them down to temperature below &minus;56 &deg;C, where the CO<sub>2</sub> becomes solid and blocks the flow. 

