# Week 27
## Todo this week
+ Repeat the last test in vacuum.
+ Measure the T lost in the water interface.
+ Replace the pump with a new one and check the performance.
+ Design and make a new smaller condenser.
- Assembe the TECs with new thermal paste.

## 2026-06-29
+ Tested 2 TECs layers, with the CPU coolers and water heat exchanger:
    + 14.5 V power
    + The 30x30 TECs are connected in serial.
    + The 40x40 TECs are connected in parallel.
    + Vacuum.
    + Liquid heat exchanger with 100 ml of water uses ID 4 mm pipe.
    + Tc &minus;51.8 &deg;C, Th 41.0 &deg;C in 5 minutes.
    + Tc &minus;52.3 &deg;C, Th 40.9 &deg;C in 10 minutes.
    + Tmid in the log is the temperature at the CPU cooler, 33.7 &deg;C.
    + The T lost of the water interface is 41.0-33.7 = 7.3 &deg;C
    + The time constant of the cooling is 47 seconds.
+ Arrived new smaller silent pump.

## 2026-06-30
+ Installed the new pump. It's silent. Specs:
    + New: QR50C, 12 V, 60 W, 300 Lph (5 Lpm), 3m (0.3 Bar).
    + Old: Seaflo SFSP1, 12 V, 720 Lph (12 Lpm), 6 m (0.6 Bar)
+ Tested with the new pump:
    + Tc is &minus;51.6 &deg;C (was &minus;52.4 &deg;C).
    + Th&minus;Tvent is 7.8 &deg;C (was 7.2 &deg;C).
    + We can improve the performance of the water cooling by increasing the diameter of the pipes.
+ Given the time constant 47 seconds for the test on 2026-06-29 for cooling the aluminium block 30x30x1 mm from 33 down to &minus;52 &deg;C it can be calculated that the cooling power is ~4 Watt, 0.052 Wh removed by the TECs from the aluminium block when it reached the &minus;52 &deg;C (takes x4..x5 of a time constant).
+ For a 10 mm thick condenser it would require x10 more, 0.52 Wh. The time constante would be 470 seconds.
+ **Idea**: What if we precool the CO<sub>2</sub> at the intermidiate layers of the TECs, where they work more efficiently?
+ Started to calculate the cooling power based on the time constant. It requires a heat mass larger then current 1 mm aluminium thermocouple adapter.
+ Made a 30x30x10 mm aluminum block to measure the thermal inertia. It would be later used to make a smaller condenser.

## 2026-07-01
+ Orderded 50 g of a thermal paste. Should arrive tomorrow.
+ Started to reassemble the sutup for new experiements.
+ Designed a new clamp support. It would leave more space for the cell.
+ 3D-printed the new clamp support.
+ While reassembling the setup found that the CO2 inlet is not centered. The condenser has to be shifted as well. Have to find a way to place it.

## 2026-07-02
+ The aluminum spring holder used in the clamp for the TECs is too big and messes up with the RE electrod adapter. Have to make a new holder for the springs.
+ The spring parameters: OD 12 mm, ID 6.4 mm, L 20 mm. Force, Nuwton/length: 0/0, 50/19.5, 100/18.5, 150/18, 200/17/ 250/16, 300/15, 350/14, 400/15.
+ 3D-printed the new spring holder and a new clamp support. They give you more space for the cell.
