# Week 21
## Todo this week
+ Check the tightness of the cell assembly at room temperature.
+ Check the readings of the new thermocouple.
+ Reserve the climatic chamber for the tightness check.
+ Check the tightness at negative temperatures.
+ Conduct a second experiment with the GC.
    + Agree on a day with Antonio
+ Make a new clamp for the Perlter cooler.
    + Find a metral sheet for the T measurements between the Peltier modules.

## 2026-05-18
* Check the tightness of the cell at room temperature. The new Pt electrod and the pipe adapter hold the pressure ~8 Bar. However, the Cu electrod very slowly leaks at the soldering point. Have to resolder it.
* The climatic chamber is reserved for tomorrow, tuesday 19/05/2026.

## 2026-05-19
* At DIFA the cell asembly was checked in the ethanol with the climatic chamber set at &minus;40 &deg;C.
* The cell was filled with the liquid CO<sub>2</sub> up to the top and left for two hours, no decrease of the level was observed. The experiment with GC is planned for the friday 22/05/2026.
* There was some pressure rise when the cell was vacuumed. Have to recheck it at CNR.

## 2026-05-20
* The vacuum test at CNR showed no leakage.
* Manufactured a forse spreading Al part for the springs for the Peltier modules.
* Manufactured a Al plate for the thermcouple for the Peltier modules.

## 2026-05-21
* Disassembled the old setup with the Peltier.
* Manufactured a new clamp for the new setupe with the Peltier.

## 2026-05-22
* Experiment @ DIFA with GC. There was a problem with the GC readings, probably due to the not sufficient preparation procudure. 

## Todo next week
- Continue the experiment @ DIFA
- Process the log data from the experiment
- Finish the list of journals for the article about the setup
- Continuew manufacturing of the new setup
