# Week 26
## Todo this week
+ Check the delivery updates from Aliexpress. The order can arrive this week.
+ Decide which configuration of the TECs we would use, parallel or serial.
+ Test the serial configuration. 

## 2026-06-22
+ First strucure and the abstract for the article about the setup/platform.
+ The order from Aliexpress is reported to reach Italy.

## 2026-06-23
+ There will be no update of the article untill the GC recalibration.
+ Minor work on the article about the setup.
+ Recieved the Cu heat exchangers and the Al blocks from Aliexpress.
+ The size of the Cu heat exchangers varies by 0.2 mm. It can be crical for the parallel configuration of the TECs. One vote more for the serial placement of the TECs.
+ Continued desgin of the setup with the TECs in serial.

## 2026-06-24
+ Designed and 3D-printed a new assembling support for the test setup.
+ Made a new 30x30 themocouple adapter for the test setups (we had 40x40 adapters only).
+ Assembled the TECs of the test setup. The thermocouple adapter is in the place of the condenser.

# 2026-06-26
+ Finished the first version of the abstract for the presentation about the work.
+ Assembled and checked the water circuit. We are out of thermal paste now. The 
+ Tested 2 TECs layers with the CPU coolers and water heat exchanger:
    + 14.5 V power
    + The 30x30 TECs are connected in serial.
    + The 40x40 TECs are connected in parallel.
    + No vacuum, no insulation.
    + Liquid heat exchanger with 100 ml of water uses ID 4 mm pipe.
    + Tc &minus;46.2 &deg;C, Tmid 1.8 &deg;C, Th 40.7 &deg;C in 5 minutes.
    + Tc &minus;46.9 &deg;C, Tmid 1.1 &deg;C, Th 40.6 &deg;C in 10 minutes.

## Todo next week
+ Repeat the last test in vacuum.
+ Measure the T lost in the water interface.

