# Week 24
## Todo this week
- [x] Revise all the Peltier modules. What do we have?
- [x] Check all the 40x40 modules if they have half of the declared current.
- [x] Test in vacuum. What's the minimum T of the current setup?
- [x] Test the T difference of the Al thermal interface of the 2nd layer TEC.
- [x] Test a simple air cooling.
- [x] Measure the pressure created by the springs of the CPU cooler.
- [x] Do an experiment with the 40x40 modules with the CPU cooler.

## 2026-06-08
+ Revised the Peltier modules. We have six 40x40 modules and five 30x30 working modules.
+ Found a [datasheet](https://www.sameskydevices.com/product/resource/cp85-2.pdf) of the 40 mm 51.6 W 8.5 A module with better curves. It's for two Th, unlike the one from RS, so I can make a model, if necessary.
+ Checked the resistance and intial current of all the Peltier 40x40 modules. They are all similar to each other. The current is about 3.2 A (two modules start at 3.0 A). But it's supposed to be more then 6 A, according to the datasheet.
+ Tested 2 layers of TECs in vacuum. The 30x30 TECs were in series, powered with 6V instead of 12, to reduce Qh. The Tc reached &minus;27 &deg;C in 5 minutes and &minus;37 &deg;C in 9 minutes. In air the Tc was &minus;19 &deg;C after 5 minutes. Recall, that Tc reached &minus;40 &deg;C with water cooling in the same time.
+ Tested &#916;T of the Al thermal interface between the hot side of 2nd layer of the TEC and the base plate. It's 7 &deg;C at most, quite stable.

## 2026-06-09
+ Tested the air cooling with a duct fan (found arround). The fan was cooling the base plate. As expected the &#916;T created by the thermal interface between the hot side of the second layer TEC and the base plate remained 7 &deg;C (since the thermal flow hasn't changed). However, the Th didn't stabilize after 10 minutes, though the temperature rise was slower wrt the test without the air cooling. In 5 minutes the Tc drop from the initial T was 56.3 &deg;C, with the air cooling, and 51.8 &deg;C without the air cooling. The minimal Tc we reached was &minus;40 &deg;C but it's in 10 minutes; while in the setup with the chiller we reached it in 5 minutes.
+ Recall that with water cooling (see the [week 24, 2024](<2024 week 26.md>)) the &#916;T created by the thermal interface (water heat echangers made of aluminium) was 4.5 &deg;C. The current 7 &deg;C difference is created by the 30 mm of the aluminium. The heat flow is different, however.
+ Calculated the heat flow through the one aluminium block:\
$Q = k \times A \times (&#916;T / L)$, where:\
k is thermal conductivity of aluminium (~205 W/mK), A is area of the block (25x60 mm), L is the length of the block (30 mme from the middle point of the TEC).\
$Q = 205 \times (20e^{-3} \times 60e^{-3}) \times (7 / 30e^{-3}) = 72 W$.
+ Given the &#916;T 40 &deg;C of the 1st layer TEC we can see from the curves from the datasheet, that the Qc is ~3 W per module and Qh is ~10 W per module. The Qh should be close to a Qc of the 2nd layer TEC. However, given the &#916;T 50 &deg;C of the 2nd layer, at 12 V the current should be ~5.3 A and the Qc should be ~20 W, twice the Qh of the 1 layer TEC. Adding $12 V \times 5.3 A = 63 W$ results in ~83 W of Qh for the 2nd layer TEC. It's 11 W higher then the 72 W of the heat flow we calculated before. The real current we measured was ~3 A. It's in line with the performance curves for Qc 11 W for the 2nd layer TEC for 6 V input, but not the actual 12 V. At 6 V input the Qh would be $10 + 6 \times 3 = 28 W$, but not 72 W.

## 2026-06-10
+ Made the 40x40 adapter for the thermocople for the new CPU cooler, from 1mm aluminium sheet.
+ Made the power connection for the CPU cooler. The plug is from an old matherboard.
+ Idea: with just two CPU coolers we can use the stack of the TECs instead of using a metal plate for the heat transfer. In the stack the heat would be transfered by water with a pump. This way we avoid metalworking, big heat exchangers, big springs.
+ Replaced the 6/32 inches fixtures of the CPU cooler with M4.
+ The force measuremet tool works in Linux with the command: `sudo minicom -D /dev/serial/by-id/usb-1a86_USB2.0-Ser_-if00-port0 -b 9600`.
+ Measured the force created by the springs of the CPU cooler (Noctua NH-D15) is ~500 N at 7 mm spring length (10.6 mm) unload length. The optimal performance should be in 20%..80% of the total deflection range. For these springs the free length is 10.6 mm, solid length is ~ 6.4 mm. The 20% corresponds to the 7.24 mm length. So, we can at the lower limit, both the pressure for the TEC and the spring length.

## 2026-06-11
+ Evaluated two configurations of the second layer of TECs: in serial and in parallel. The serial placement requires additionial heat exchanging with liquids and pumps, but the added initial complexity doesn't increase when scaling up. The parallel configuration dowsn't require liquid heat exchanging for hot side of the TECs, but requires customization of the metal heat interface, and would need reworking of all the custom parts when scaling.

## 2026-06-12
+ Calculated the thikness of the pressure bar for the two 40x40 TECs in parallel. For aluminium it must be more the 12 mm to provide minimal deflection allowed for TECs.
+ Ordered 40x15x200 mm aluminium bar from Aliexpress.
+ Found a 40x80 copper heat sink at Aliexpress. Decide if need ty order after the tests.
+ Fixed the mistake of placing two springs in series at the CPU cooler. One spring makes the same force.

## 2026-06-13
+ Tested the Noctua CPU coolers. Two 40x40 TECs were mounted as a sandwich with one Cu heat exchanger between the two coolers. The T air is 27.2 &deg;C. The Th of one TEC reached 31.2 &deg;C in 30 seconds and remained at this level. The Tc of the TEC reached 0 &deg;C in 40 seconds, &minus;36.8 &deg;C in 5 minutes and &minus;38.2 &deg;C in 9 minutes. The delta T max is 69.4 &deg;C.
+ Given the limited quantity of the thermal paste, we could use the current assembly with the CPU cooler to cool down the TECs of the condenser. However, we need at least on additional Cu heat exchanger. We don't have it. So, make sense to order two 40x40 Cu heat exchangers.

## Todo next week
- Do an experiment with the one 30x30 module with the CPU cooler.
- Decide which configuration of the TECs we would use, parallel or serial.

