# Week 22
## Todo this week
+ Continue the experiment @ DIFA
+ Process the log data from the experiment
+ Finish the list of journals for the article about the setup
+ Dismount the water cooler system of the old setup
- Continue to manufacture the new setup
    + Design and 3D print a new support for the condenser
    + Assemble the clamp
    + Recheck the clamp force (for 30x30 and 40x40 mm modules)
    - Mount the clamp to the base of the vacuum chamber
    - Clamp the Peltier modules
    - Mount the clamp to the base

## 2026-05-25
+ Done successfully the experiment @ DIFA with GC. The security valve failed to hold 9 Bar, it holds only 6.5 Bar now.
+ The volume of the pipes (for the article): V cold 3.77 ml, V ambient 14.04 ml, V total 17.81 ml. 

## 2026-05-26
+ Processed the logs: made charts. Shared the data with Antonio
+ Finished the search for a publication about the setup. The first candidates: Review of Scientific Instruments, Electrochimica Acta, Journal of CO2 Utilization. 
+ Discussed with Giulias the next steps.
+ Dismounted the water tank with the pumps.

## 2026-05-27
+ Dismounted the water cooler system of the old setup
+ Designed and 3D printed a new support for the condenser
+ Assembled the clamp

## 2026-05-28
+ The force, applied to the clamp is calculated [equally as before](/journal/2024 week 43.md). The pressure is reccomended to be 03..0.8 MPa. I.e. for the 30x30 module the force should be 270..720 N, for the 40x40 module &mdash; 480..1280 N. The average force is 600 N.
+ Measured the force of the two springs assembled in the clamp to see how the force correspondes to the absolue position of clamp.
+ Made mounting holes in the base of the vacuum chamber.

## Todo next week
- Send the journals list to Giulia

